TRPT reference — verbatim printed pages 69-70 (PDF pages 96-97).

Source: O. Tulloch, PhD thesis, University of Strathclyde, 2021.

This is the passage that carries the TRPT-1 cone angle. The text layer of the PDF
drops the ligature characters; they are restored here as plain letters. The figure
that decides the angle is Figure 3.10, captured at 400 dpi as
figures/fig3.10-trpt1-cone-geometry-printed-p69.png.

Read with section F5 of 03-repo-findings.md.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--- PDF page 96 (printed page 69) ---

Chapter 3.   Experimental Campaign and Design Improvement on Rotary Airborne
Wind Energy Systems




Figure 3.10: Diagram of the first TRPT configuration used within the Daisy Kite for
this work, TRPT1



tethers, the torque will be transmitted to the opposite end of the tethers. W&I have

previously tested a TRPT that was similar to this simple configuration. Their design

also included a third tether that ran through the middle of each rod. This third central

tether acted as the axis of rotation about which the rods and the outer two tethers

rotated. W&I found this configuration impractical, the straight rods would easily get

caught inside the tethers and the system required large amounts of tension to reliably

transfer torque. W&I have experimented with several TRPT designs. Later iterations

of the Daisy Kite's TRPT all consist of six tethers that are equally spaced around the

circumference of several carbon fibre rings.     Figure 3.10 shows a diagram of the first

TRPT system that has been used within the Daisy Kite for this work.




The rings are made of one or more straight carbon fibre tubes that are bent into shape.

As with the rotor, the rings are encased in a dacron sleeve. The tethers are sewn onto

the dacron sleeve at the six attachment points on each ring.      A central tether runs

through the centre of each ring acting as the axis of rotation of the TRPT. Similar to

the rotor, each ring has six radial tethers. These run from the tether attachment points

on the ring to the central tether.   The radial tethers are joined to each other at the

central tether using a small plastic disc. The disc acts to join the radial tethers and

allows the TPRT to rotate independently of the central tether. As with the rotor, the

radial tethers constrain the rings radial deformation.




                                           69


--- PDF page 97 (printed page 70) ---

Chapter 3.   Experimental Campaign and Design Improvement on Rotary Airborne
Wind Energy Systems




          Figure 3.11: Diagram of a torsionally deformed Daisy Kite TRPT.




The TRPT shown in Figure 3.10 is used for a number of the experiments conducted as

part of this work. It consists of five carbon fibre rings, the top ring is also the Daisy

Kite's rotor. The ground station has a steel wheel with a diameter of 0.42m that the

tethers at the bottom of the TRPT connect on to. The TRPT shown in Figure 3.10 was

                                    ◦
designed to have a cone angle of 22 . This is to avoid any abrupt changes in the TRPT's

diameter. As torsion is applied to the TRPT, the system deforms. Figure 3.11 shows

an example of this. The Daisy Kite's TRPT must deform rotationally before it is able

to transmit torque. In its initial state the tethers are parallel to the axis of rotation,

and therefore unable to react any torsional force. Once two adjacent rings have dierent

rotational positions relative to one another, the tethers are no longer parallel to the axis

of rotation. The tethers are then able to react against the torsion and transmit torque

along the TRPT.




As the TRPT deforms the outer tethers move inwards towards the axis of rotation. If

the six outer tethers reach the axis of rotation they will cross and the transmittable

torque collapses to zero.   The rings within the TRPT act to resist this compression

force, keeping the outer tethers away from the central axis. When designing the TRPT

it was feared that an abrupt change in the TRPT diameter would increase the com-

pression force beyond the rings ultimate strength, causing the rings to fail. By slowly

decreasing the TRPT diameter from the "ying rotor down to the ground stations wheel,

the compressive forces within the TRPT are kept low.




                                            70

